# DATA 550 Final Project
## Kelly Longhini

> This repository contains the final project of __DATA 550: Data Science Toolkit (Fall 2024)__ at Emory University.

> Project title: "Factors Influencing Breast Cancer Survival"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Code description

`code/00_clean_data.R`

  - Cleans the breast cancer data 
  - Saves the data as a `.rds` object in `data/` folder

`code/01_make_table1.R`

  - Creates table 1 and saves it as a `.rds` object in the `output/` folder
  
`code/02_make_barplot1.R`

  - Creates barplot 1 and saves it as a `.png` object in the `output/` folder
  
`code/03_make_barplot2.R`

  - Creates barplot 2 and saves it as a `.png` object in the `output/` folder

`code/04_make_regression_primary_model.R`

  - Creates the primary regression model and saves it as a `.rds` object in the `output/` folder

`code/05_render_report.R`

  - Renders `final_report.Rmd`

`final_report.Rmd`

  - Reads data generated by `code/00_clean_data.R`
  - Makes table 1, barplot 1, barplot 2, and the primary regression model
  - Includes an introduction to the project, a descriptive analysis with table 1, barplot 1, and barplot 2, and a regression analysis with the primary model
  
# Generating the final report
## One way to generate the final report... 

  - Fork and clone the repository from GitHub to your local computer, and ensure that all code pieces are present.
  - Navigate to the main project folder, "final-project", and set it as your working directory. 
  - Run `make install` in the terminal (from the command line) to synchronize your package repository with the required packages for the project. This is a shortcut to running `renv::restore()`, which restores the package library.
  - Run `make` in the terminal (from the command line), and the final_report.html will build. This command will sequentially clean the data, generate the table and figures, perform the analysis, and render the final report.
  
  
## Alternative, fully automated generation of the final report using Docker...

  - Fork and clone the repository from GitHub to your local computer, and ensure that all code pieces are present.
  - Navigate to the main project folder, "final-project", and set it as your working directory. 

Instructions for building the Docker image
  Option #1:
- To access the image on Dockerhub, navigate to: https://hub.docker.com/r/klonghini/data-550-final-project
- Run `docker pull klonghini/data-550-final-project` in the terminal (from the command line). 

  Option #2: 
- To build the image locally, run `docker build -t klonghini/data-550-final-project .` in the terminal (from the command line).
- To run the image interactively, run `docker run -it klonghini/data-550-final-project bash` in the terminal (from the command line).

Instructions for running the automated version of the image
- On Mac OS, run `make mac-linux/report/final_report.html` in the terminal (from the command line).
- On Windows OS, run `make windows/report/final_report.html` in the terminal (from the command line).
- The final report will build. Once the process completes, navigate to the local "report" folder to locate the final_report.html. 



  